README.md, before:

# Use FilamentPHP with nwiDart/laravel-modules

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/savannabits/filament-modules.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/savannabits/filament-modules)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/savannabits/filament-modules/.github/workflows/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests)](https://github.com/savannabits/filament-modules/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/savannabits/filament-modules/.github/workflows/fix-php-code-style-issues.yml?branch=main&label=Code%20Style)](https://github.com/savannabits/filament-modules/actions?query=workflow%3A"Check+%26+fix+styling"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/savannabits/filament-modules.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/savannabits/filament-modules)
![img_2.png](img_1.png)
![img_3.png](img_2.png)


This plugin provides you with a quick and working configuration to install multiple filament admin contexts in your modular laravel app (using [laravel-modules](https://github.com/nWidart/laravel-modules)).

## Goal
The goal of this app is to enable you install multiple contexts of Filament Admin per module in your LaravelModules powered app.

For example, if you have two modules (**Blog** and **Pos**), you should be able to have filament installed in each module with separate resources as below:
- Directory **Modules/Blog/Filament** should enable you to access the admin panel via `http://yoururl/blog/admin`
- Directory **Modules/Pos/Filament** should enable you to access the admin panel via `http://yoururl/pos/admin`
- We can even have another context under **Modules/Pos/Filament2** should enable you to access the admin panel via `http://yoururl/pos/admin2` or whichever path you configure for that context.

Each of the above directories should have their own distinct **Pages, Resources** and **Widgets**. Each of them also has a config under the module's Config folder allowing you to customize a number of parameters per context, e.g the `path`.
Additionally, each of these can have its own customized login page which redirects back to the module.

You can read more about Multiple Context for Filament [Here](https://github.com/iotronlab/filament-multi-guard).

If this is your goal, then you are in the right place.
 
## Installation
Before you proceed, this guide assumes that you have configured your app fully to work with Laravel Modules. If you haven't, follow the [Laravel Modules Docs](https://docs.laravelmodules.com/v9/installation-and-setup) before proceeding.
We, of course, also assume that you have configured your default filament admin panel.
You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require savannabits/filament-modules
```

## Usage

To generate a new Filament Context, use the `module:make-filament` command.
You can run `php artisan module:make-filament -h` to see the expected arguments.

```bash
#Option 1: Pick an existing module to use first, then run the command (similar to other laravel-modules commands)
php artisan module:use Blog
php artisan module:make-filament Filament # This will create the `Filament` filament context inside the Blog module.
php artisan module:make-filament Accounting # This will create the `Accounting` filament context inside the Blog module.

# Option 2: Pass the Module name as an argument. If the module does not exist, it will be automatically created.
php artisan module:make-filament Filament Blog # This will create the `Filament` filament context inside the Blog module.
php artisan module:make-filament Accounting Blog # This will create the `Accounting` filament context inside the Blog module.
```
### Directory Structure of the generated module:
![img.png](img.png)
### Config:
The configuration for each of the generated contexts will be stored under the module's Config directory, e.g `/Modules/Blog/Config/blog-filament.php` in the above case.
You can adjust the config to change several parameters, for example the admin panel path (defaults to the slug of the context name).

### The context's admin panel path
By default, you should be able to access your admin panel under the url `http://yoururl/:yourModule/:yourPathConfig` 
e.g `http://yoururl/blog/admin-panel` and `http://yoururl/blog/accounting` in the above cases.
If you would like to change the path, you can change it under the corresponding config file.

### The Context's Service Provider
This package automatically adds each of the generated context's service provider in providers' list in `app.php config`.
Be sure to remove this Service Provider in case you delete the context.

## Adding Pages/Resources/Widgets/RelationManagers to Module Context

You may now add filament resources or pages to your newly generated contexts. 
```bash
#Generating Resources:
## Default Context if not passed: Filament
## If module is not passed, it will default to the currently being used module or ask for a prompt to input the module name.
php artisan module:make-filament-resource {name?} {context?} {module?} {--soft-deletes} {--view} {--G|generate} {--S|simple} {--F|force}

#Generating Pages
## Default Context if not passed: Filament
## If module is not passed, it will default to the currently being used module or ask for a prompt to input the module name.
php artisan module:make-filament-page {name} {context?}  {module?} {--R|resource=} {--T|type=} {--F|force}

#Generating RelationManagers:
php artisan module:make-filament-relation-manager {resource?} {relationship?} {recordTitleAttribute?} {context?} {module?}  {--attach} {--associate} {--soft-deletes} {--view} {--F|force}

#Widgets: Pass the Module name as an argument and the name of widget.
php artisan module:make-filament-widget {module?} {name?} {--R|resource=} {--C|chart} {--T|table} {--S|stats-overview} {--F|force}

```
### Examples:
```bash
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Author Filament Bookstore #Will generate AuthorResource in the Filament Context in the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Book Admin Bookstore #Will generate BookResource in the Admin Context inside the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Book Admin #Will generate BookResource in the Admin Context inside the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Book #Will generate BookResource in the Filament Context (Used by default) inside the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-page ManageStoreSettings # Will generate the ManageStoreSettings page in the Filament context (default) inside the Bookstore module
php artisan module:make-filament-page ManageStoreSettings Settings # Will generate the ManageStoreSettings page in the Settings context inside the Bookstore module
php artisan module:make-filament-page MyProfile Filament Auth # Will generate the MyProfile page in the Filament context inside the Auth module
```
```bash
php artisan module:make-filament-relation-manager AuthorResource books title Filament Bookstore # Assuming Author model has a books relationship, this will generate a BooksRelationManager using title as the main column inside the AuthorResource in the Filament Context in the Bookstore Module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-relation-manager # Will interactively ask questions then generate the relation manager according to the answers in the bookstore module.
```
![img4.png](img4.png)

### ContextualPage & ContextualResource traits

In order to ensure proper routing for generated resources and pages, they use a `ContextualResource` and `ContextualPage` trait respectively.
These traits are automatically appended to newly generated resources and pages. However, just in case you are moving an existing resource or page to your module,
be sure to apply these contextual traits.

```php
namespace YourNamespace\Resources;

use Savannabits\FilamentModules\Concerns\ContextualPage;
use Filament\Pages\Page;

class Dashboard extends Page
{
    use ContextualPage;
}
```

Resources:

```php
namespace YourNamespace\Resources;

use Savannabits\FilamentModules\Concerns\ContextualResource;
use Filament\Resources\Resource;

class UserResource extends Resource
{
    use ContextualResource;
}
```

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [Sam Maosa](https://github.com/savannabits)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Final Documentation Review for v2.0.0 release: - Updated documentation to capture shield access control - Updated git workflows

README.md, after:

# Use FilamentPHP with nwiDart/laravel-modules

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/savannabits/filament-modules.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/savannabits/filament-modules)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/savannabits/filament-modules/.github/workflows/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests)](https://github.com/savannabits/filament-modules/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/savannabits/filament-modules/.github/workflows/fix-php-code-style-issues.yml?branch=main&label=Code%20Style)](https://github.com/savannabits/filament-modules/actions?query=workflow%3A"Check+%26+fix+styling"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/savannabits/filament-modules.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/savannabits/filament-modules)
![img_2.png](img_1.png)
![img_3.png](img_2.png)


This plugin provides you with a quick and working configuration to install multiple filament admin contexts in your modular laravel app (using [laravel-modules](https://github.com/nWidart/laravel-modules)).

## Goal
The goal of this app is to enable you install multiple contexts of Filament Admin per module in your LaravelModules powered app.

For example, if you have two modules (**Blog** and **Pos**), you should be able to have filament installed in each module with separate resources as below:
- Directory **Modules/Blog/Filament** should enable you to access the admin panel via `http://yoururl/blog/admin`
- Directory **Modules/Pos/Filament** should enable you to access the admin panel via `http://yoururl/pos/admin`
- We can even have another context under **Modules/Pos/Filament2** should enable you to access the admin panel via `http://yoururl/pos/admin2` or whichever path you configure for that context.

Each of the above directories should have their own distinct **Pages, Resources** and **Widgets**. Each of them also has a config under the module's Config folder allowing you to customize a number of parameters per context, e.g the `path`.
Additionally, each of these can have its own customized login page which redirects back to the module.

You can read more about Multiple Context for Filament [Here](https://github.com/iotronlab/filament-multi-guard).

If this is your goal, then you are in the right place.
 
## Installation
Before you proceed, this guide assumes that you have configured your app fully to work with Laravel Modules. If you haven't, follow the [Laravel Modules Docs](https://docs.laravelmodules.com/v9/installation-and-setup) before proceeding.
We, of course, also assume that you have configured your default filament admin panel.
You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require savannabits/filament-modules
```

## Usage

To generate a new Filament Context, use the `module:make-filament` command.
You can run `php artisan module:make-filament -h` to see the expected arguments.

```bash
#Option 1: Pick an existing module to use first, then run the command (similar to other laravel-modules commands)
php artisan module:use Blog
php artisan module:make-filament Filament # This will create the `Filament` filament context inside the Blog module.
php artisan module:make-filament Accounting # This will create the `Accounting` filament context inside the Blog module.

# Option 2: Pass the Module name as an argument. If the module does not exist, it will be automatically created.
php artisan module:make-filament Filament Blog # This will create the `Filament` filament context inside the Blog module.
php artisan module:make-filament Accounting Blog # This will create the `Accounting` filament context inside the Blog module.
```
### Directory Structure of the generated module:
![img.png](img.png)
### Config:
The configuration for each of the generated contexts will be stored under the module's Config directory, e.g `/Modules/Blog/Config/blog-filament.php` in the above case.
You can adjust the config to change several parameters, for example the admin panel path (defaults to the slug of the context name).

### The context's admin panel path
By default, you should be able to access your admin panel under the url `http://yoururl/:yourModule/:yourPathConfig` 
e.g `http://yoururl/blog/admin-panel` and `http://yoururl/blog/accounting` in the above cases.
If you would like to change the path, you can change it under the corresponding config file.

### The Context's Service Provider
This package automatically adds each of the generated context's service provider in providers' list in `app.php config`.
Be sure to remove this Service Provider in case you delete the context.

## Adding Pages/Resources/Widgets/RelationManagers to Module Context

You may now add filament resources or pages to your newly generated contexts. 
```bash
#Generating Resources:
## Default Context if not passed: Filament
## If module is not passed, it will default to the currently being used module or ask for a prompt to input the module name.
php artisan module:make-filament-resource {name?} {context?} {module?} {--soft-deletes} {--view} {--G|generate} {--S|simple} {--F|force}

#Generating Pages
## Default Context if not passed: Filament
## If module is not passed, it will default to the currently being used module or ask for a prompt to input the module name.
php artisan module:make-filament-page {name} {context?}  {module?} {--R|resource=} {--T|type=} {--F|force}

#Generating RelationManagers:
php artisan module:make-filament-relation-manager {resource?} {relationship?} {recordTitleAttribute?} {context?} {module?}  {--attach} {--associate} {--soft-deletes} {--view} {--F|force}

#Widgets: Pass the Module name as an argument and the name of widget.
php artisan module:make-filament-widget {module?} {name?} {--R|resource=} {--C|chart} {--T|table} {--S|stats-overview} {--F|force}

```
### Examples:
```bash
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Author Filament Bookstore #Will generate AuthorResource in the Filament Context in the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Book Admin Bookstore #Will generate BookResource in the Admin Context inside the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Book Admin #Will generate BookResource in the Admin Context inside the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-resource Book #Will generate BookResource in the Filament Context (Used by default) inside the Bookstore module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-page ManageStoreSettings # Will generate the ManageStoreSettings page in the Filament context (default) inside the Bookstore module
php artisan module:make-filament-page ManageStoreSettings Settings # Will generate the ManageStoreSettings page in the Settings context inside the Bookstore module
php artisan module:make-filament-page MyProfile Filament Auth # Will generate the MyProfile page in the Filament context inside the Auth module
```
```bash
php artisan module:make-filament-relation-manager AuthorResource books title Filament Bookstore # Assuming Author model has a books relationship, this will generate a BooksRelationManager using title as the main column inside the AuthorResource in the Filament Context in the Bookstore Module
```
```bash
php artisan module:use Bookstore
php artisan module:make-filament-relation-manager # Will interactively ask questions then generate the relation manager according to the answers in the bookstore module.
```
![img4.png](img4.png)

### ContextualPage & ContextualResource traits

In order to ensure proper routing for generated resources and pages, they use a `ContextualResource` and `ContextualPage` trait respectively.
These traits are automatically appended to newly generated resources and pages. However, just in case you are moving an existing resource or page to your module,
be sure to apply these contextual traits.

```php
namespace YourNamespace\Resources;

use Savannabits\FilamentModules\Concerns\ContextualPage;
use Filament\Pages\Page;

class Dashboard extends Page
{
    use ContextualPage;
}
```

Resources:

```php
namespace YourNamespace\Resources;

use Savannabits\FilamentModules\Concerns\ContextualResource;
use Filament\Resources\Resource;

class UserResource extends Resource
{
    use ContextualResource;
}
```
## Access, Roles and Permissions
For Access Control, this package is designed to work hand in hand with
**[Shield (Roles & Permissions)](https://github.com/bezhanSalleh/filament-shield)** by [Bezhan Salleh](https://github.com/bezhanSalleh), which is a wrapper around
**[spatie/laravel-permission](https://github.com/spatie/laravel-permission)**.

If you don't have the two packages above installed, then Modules will ignore access control and by default allow access to anyone logged in.

With Shield, the package adds two more functionalities:
1. Generates permissions to allow access to the module. These are prefixed with `module_`. For example, if a user doesn't have the permission `module_Blog` then they won't be able to access any contexts under the `Blog` module.
   ![img_6.png](img_6.png)
2. Enables shield to scan for resources and pages registered under the contexts in `Modules` in addition to the default Filament installation and generate permissions for them. If the policies generation option is enabled, the Policy classes are also generated under `Modules\ModuleName\Policies\`.
   ![img_5.png](img_5.png)

### WIP
Currently, the permissions for all pages in the various modules are named as page_{BaseClassName}. This brings challenges in case there are pages named similarly but in different contexts. The plan is to override the naming as is in `Shield` so that it can also capture the full path of the page class.

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [Sam Maosa](https://github.com/savannabits)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
